One of the best things about blockchain
is that you can create crypto arbitrage
trading bots that print money while you
sleep. In just the last seven days,
developers made over 4 million with this
strategy. All 100% verifiable on the
blockchain. But how can you create one
of these? And how can you make one
that's actually profitable? Well, that's
what I'm going to show you how to do in
this video today as a blockchain
developer myself who's done this. So, if
you're new around here, hey, I'm
Gregory. And on this channel, I turn you
into a blockchain master. So, if that's
something you're interested in, then
smash that like button down below and
subscribe.
All right, so let's get into this. Let's
talk about how to make a profitable
arbitrage trading bot in 2026. So, if
you clicked on this video, you probably
already understand what arbitrage is, or
at least have an idea. But basically,
it's buying cryptocurrency on one
exchange and selling it on a different
exchange for a profit in real time.
Okay? So, you don't want to do this on
centralized exchanges. Okay? Most people
think, I'm gonna buy some Bitcoin. and
I'm going to buy it cheap on one
exchange and send it to another exchange
and then sell it for a profit because
they're always a little bit out of sync.
But there's a problem with this. By the
time you buy it on one exchange and move
it to the other exchange to sell it, you
know, the price could have moved on you.
All right? So, you don't want to use
centralized exchanges. You want to use
decentralized exchanges like unis swap,
pancake swap, etc., etc. to do this. So,
why? Well, basically, they don't require
any of your own money to trade because
you can borrow it for free with flash
loans. And number two, you can't
actually lose any of the money on your
trades or you can't lose any of the
money that you're borrowing because the
bot is powered by smart contracts and
the blockchain won't let that happen.
Okay, so how can you do this? Well, I'm
going to break down each step in this
video, but if you want to jump past all
of that and actually steal my
arbitragebased trading bot, then make
sure you hold your spot for the trading
bot master class next Thursday on
January 22nd. inside. I'm going to give
you away my arbitragebased trading bot
and show you how to set it up step by
step. So trust me, you don't want to
miss this. Hold your spot with the link
down below. All right, so step number
one is that you want to pick the
blockchain that you're going to perform
these arbitrageages on. Okay, so that's
the important thing to understand. If
you're going to be doing arbitrage, you
need to do it on the exact same
blockchain. Currently, at the time of
this video, there's not really a good
way to do crosschain arbitragees between
different blockchains. So when you pick
a chain, you want to, you know, satisfy
a certain amount of criteria. Number one
is it needs to have a lot of tokens,
different cryptocurrencies you can
actually arb. Number two is it's got to
have a lot of different exchanges you
can arbitrage between. Number three is
it must support flash loans. And number
four, you know, it must be EVM
compatible so that you can take the same
solidity code and use it on multiple
different blockchains. Okay. So if you
look at a website like d5ylama.com, it's
going to help you look at this different
criteria. Uh obviously the blockchain
with the most activity on top of it, the
most TVL, all that type of stuff is
Ethereum. Okay. But you can see other
EVM compatible blockchains like Tron,
you know, Binance Smart Chain, you got
the other Ethereum layer 2s like
Optimism, Arbitum, Base, etc., etc. All
right, so step number two is you want to
pick the different exchanges that you're
arbitrageing between. Start with two and
they need to be decentralized exchanges.
Okay, they need to actually run on the
blockchain where the backend is powered
by smart contracts. So I'll give you two
examples. So in this case, let's talk
about unis swap and also pancake swap.
So why did I choose these? Well, on the
back end for like unis swap version
three and pancake swap is they basically
use the same code. Okay, it's a little
bit different, but the important thing
is that the interface of those two
exchanges is the same. What I mean by
that is when you call the function to
actually perform a swap, it's the same
function on both exchanges. So if you
can code for one, you can actually code
for the other. Another reason for this
is they have lots of liquidity, so
there's lots of money on these
exchanges. They're high trading volume.
There's lots of different pairs, so you
can trade lots of different tokens on
there. And they're on many different
networks. So, if you can implement this
strategy on one network, you can likely
move it to a different blockchain as
well. So, you don't have to take my word
for it, okay? You can actually go look
at uh the forks tab on DeFi Lama. This
is basically a place where you can see
uh what applications have been copied
and use the exact same codebase for
other different blockchains. And so you
can see or different applications and
you can see that like basically unis
swap version 3 has been forked 200
times. Okay, so there's 200 different
exchanges basically that use the exact
same codebase. All right, now they're
not all going to have activity on them,
but there's still going to be plenty
that do. Now once you've picked the
different exchanges that you are going
to arbitrage between, what you're going
to do is you are going to monitor all
the trades for the specific tokens that
you're watching on that exchange. And
every single time a token trades, the
price is going to change on that
exchange. And you're basically going to
monitor that with the events on the
blockchain or whatever method that you
want to. And you're going to look to see
if the price fell out of sync enough for
you to buy on one exchange and sell on
the other. If you can and you can cover
it with the gas fees, then you have a
profitable arbitrage opportunity on your
hands. And there you go. All right. Step
number three is to pick the tokens that
you're going to trade between or a
trading pair. Okay. So, people wonder,
how can I research tokens for arbitrage
purposes? Well, one simple way is to
just look on a website like Etherscan
and look at the token tracker. Okay,
this is going to be all the top tokens
on the Ethereum blockchain. Again, this
is just one blockchain. You can rinse
and repeat this for other blockchains,
but basically, you know, there's almost
2 million token contracts uh on
Ethereum. There's, you know, almost
3,000 with, you know, okay reputation or
better. You can simply search them by
the biggest ones or sort them by the
biggest ones at the top and then go from
there. Another way is to use some type
of tool that actually explores DEX
trades and trading volume and new
tokens, all that type of stuff. There's
like Dex screener, Bird Eye, GMGM,
whatever you want to use, it doesn't
really matter as long as you can
basically look for different exchange
like Ethereum. I'll show you how to do
it here on Dex Screener. Uh look at all
the tokens. All right, sort by volume
and then just pick a token, right? So
chain link is at the top, you know, $8
million in trading volume. um a lot of
volume here, right? So, what you can do
is insert it. All right, chain link. And
now you can see that this token is in
fact traded on multiple different
exchanges on the Ethereum platform
alone, but it's also deployed to many
different decentralized exchanges and
other networks. So, basically, if the
same token is traded across lots of
different venues, then there's probably
going to be arbitrage opportunities
available. So, another point to mention
uh when you're picking tokens is that
you must use ERC20 tokens for this
particular strategy. So, what does that
mean? Well, basically, you know,
Ethereum lets you create um tokens
without creating a new blockchain on top
of the same blockchain. And that's what,
you know, ERC20 tokens are. They're
smart contract powered tokens. ERC20 is
just the standard for how these tokens
should work. All right. Basically, you
know, you can see it's got a name,
symbol, decimal, total supply, and it
implements the functionality that you
need for trading like transfer and
transfer from. That's basically what
happens whenever things get swapped on
dexes. It's just transfers in two
opposite directions. Okay. Now, some
people ask me all the time like, can I
arbitrage Bitcoin with this or Ethereum
itself? Well, you can't do that
directly, but if those blockchains
support wrapped versions of those and
ERC20 versions like wrapped Bitcoin or
wrapped ether, then yes, you can do
that. All right, so step number four is
to pick a flash loan provider. All
right, so again, if you're not familiar
with flash loans, basically this is
where you can borrow millions of dollars
in cryptocurrency for free as long as
you pay it back in the same transaction.
Okay, so basically whenever you're doing
trades, it's all in one go, all in one
transaction. If you can borrow the
money, do the trade, and pay it back,
you know, there's no issues there.
There's no way that you can lose the
money. And even if you try and you
accidentally lose the money, well, the
the transaction won't actually go
through in the blockchain, and
therefore, it's 100% safe. So, if you
don't know what, you know, uh, flash
loan provider to pick, I recommend
Balancer. All right. So, what is
Balancer? Well, it's a liquidity
protocol on top of, you know, Ethereum
and other blockchains. Basically, it has
an AMM as well. Okay. but its flash
loans are are my favorite. All right, so
why is that? Basically, it's the easiest
to set up. All right, here's the library
that you basically just put into your
smart contract. It's a simple copy and
paste job with the additional
configuration of how your contract
works, but it's really easy to get
started. All right, there's no fees, so
it's completely free to do flash loans
from Balancer. I mean, you have to pay
gas fees the network, but Balancer
doesn't charge you any extra money. All
right, and it's also multi-chain. So, it
works on multiple different blockchains,
not cross-chain. You can't do it between
two different blockchains, but you can
implement the same strategy on different
blockchains. All right, so step number
five is to create a smart contract that
implements the trading functionality.
Okay, so what's it going to do? Well,
basically, it's going to implement the
flash loan like I just showed you here.
It's going to take out a flash loan. All
right, it's going to trade the token on
two different exchanges that you've
implemented, and then it's going to
repay the flash loan whenever it's done
and then also, of course, give you the
profit. All right. So, you know, earlier
I said, you know, pick the same coding
interface on different exchanges. I
talked about, you know, unis swap
version three. All right. And also
Pancake Swap because they use the same
coding interface. And if you can code
for one, you can code for the other. So,
this is what it would look like.
Basically, what you want to do is
isolate the actual trading behavior for
the specific exchange that you're trying
to learn how to trade for. So, I'm just
using unis swap version 3 as an example.
So the question you want to answer is
how do I implement in code how to do a
swap on unis swap and then when I figure
out how to do that I can do the same
thing on pancake swap or a similar
exchange that uses the same interface.
Okay you just do it for one and then do
it in the opposite direction for the
other. So for unis swap version 3 here
in the documentation basically this is
how you do a swap use the exact input
single function call okay on the swap
router and uh this takes some parameters
what you have to set up right here okay
um and then basically you just do the
exact input single params you put in
like the token in uh token out so this
is die or we the any pool fee that might
be there uh the recipient of the trade
which is you message sender uh the
deadline which is the block time stamp
amount in amount out and and all that
other stuff. All right, step number six,
and this is the final step, is to create
a searcher bot that watches for the
opportunities in the marketplace and
then actually executes the trades. So,
once you've created the smart contracts,
all right, you actually need a bot to
finish off this entire process. Okay, a
smart contract doesn't act by itself.
So, if you put your trading contract on
the network, it's not going to look for
arbitrage opportunities. It only knows
how to perform arbitrage opportunities.
So, you need a bot to tell it what to
do. Okay, so basically um you see the
bot here. It talks to your smart
contract and the contract orchestrates
everything else. All right, so how do
you create this bot? Well, one way is to
use Node.js. Okay, so what is that?
Well, basically it's a way to run
JavaScript on your computer because
JavaScript, you know, natively only runs
in your web browser and you need
Node.js, which is a runtime environment
to let you write an app or a bot on your
computer so that you can, you know,
write this stuff in JavaScript to watch
for the trades and then call the smart
contract. Okay. So, um on top of that,
you know, your app should use some
method to connect to the blockchain and
then actually watch for the trading
events. So, I recommend Ethers.js for
this. All right. So, with Ethers, what
you can do is actually monitor every
single swap event that happens. Okay?
So, that's that's what you're doing.
Every time a swap happens on the
blockchain for the token pair that
you're watching on the exchanges that
you're watching, an event is going to be
emitted or broadcast, and you can
subscribe to that to find out anytime
that a trade happens. Your bot's going
to hear that. It's going to check the
prices, okay? And it's going to
determine, can I profitably do an ARB
with the fees and everything and do that
calculation. If it can, it's going to
call your smart contract and execute the
trade. So, with EthersJS, you're going
to use the contract.on function. Okay?
You're going to pass in the event that
you're looking for. In this case,
probably going to be swap if you're
using the exchanges that I mentioned.
And then you get a call back, which
basically is like, hey, whenever this
happens, you know, run this code. And
that's where you put in the code to
actually do the trade to your contract.
All right. So, that's an overview of how
to create a profitable crypto arbitrage
bot in 2026. Now, if you want to steal
my arbitrage bot, then make sure you
hold your spot for the trading bot
master class next Thursday on January
22nd. Inside, I'm going to give away my
arbitragebased trading bot and show you
how to set it up step by step. Trust me,
you don't want to miss this. Hold your
spot with the link down below. That's
all I got for today. Make sure you smash
the like button, subscribe to this video
so you don't miss another one.